(package is currently unmaintained)

June 18, 1993 -- Thomas Ridgway

The wnri fonts are released under the GNU GPL, version 2 or (at your
option), any later version.


This is a quick note to explain what is what in this directory:
   it may ultimately be fleshed out (it needs to be).

Here we have metafont source for fonts useful for
     Old English
     Indic languages in Roman transliteration
     Puget Salish (Lushootseed) and other American Indian languages

These are in the families
     wngb*   Washington Gerald Barnett (old English)
     wnri*   Washington Romanized Indic
     wnps*   Washington Puget Salish

     The wngb and wnri families have previously been available
privately on a test basis.  The wnps family was privately circulated
under the names wnpfa* and wnpfb* (Washington phonetic font a and b).
All prior versions are obsolete and no longer being modified/developed/
corrected.

Note that although WNRI is based on the Classical Sanskrit Extended character
set it has been extended yet again to provide character support for 
other languages which might be encountered in an Indic context, and may be 
useful to someone working in a great many east-of-Suez contexts.

Some of these have had little or no real world testing, so evaluate before
committing to their use, particularly the sans serif and typewriter faces.

The top-level files which you actually run metafont on are
wngbb10.mf   WNGB bold 10
wngbb8.mf         bold 8
wngbbx10.mf       bold extended 10
wngbi10.mf        italic 10
wngbi8.mf         italic 8
wngbib10.mf       italic bold 10 (should be bold italic)
wngbr10.mf        roman 10
wngbr8.mf         roman 8
wngbss10.mf       san serif 10
wngbt10.mf        typewriter 10
wnpsb10.mf   WNPS bold 10
wnpsb8.mf         bold 8
wnpsbi10.mf       bold italic 10
wnpsi10.mf        italic 10
wnpsi8.mf         italic 8
wnpsr10.mf        roman 10
wnpsr8.mf         roman 8
wnpss10.mf        sanserif 10
wnpss8.mf         sans 8
wnpst10.mf        typewriter 10
wnpst8.mf         typewriter 8
wnrib10.mf   WNRI bold 10
wnrib8.mf         bold 8
wnribi10.mf       bold italic 10
wnrii10.mf        italic 10
wnrii8.mf         italic 8
wnrir10.mf        roman 10
wnrir8.mf         roman 8
wnris10.mf        sans 10
wnris8.mf         sans 8
wnrit10.mf        typewriter 10
wnrit8.mf         typewriter 8

The rest of this file is historical information.

This directory has texts and font materials which may be of interest
to those working with India.  This README file is a combined successor
to previously separate README and UPDATES files.  Many of these texts are
also available in the format in which they were originally posted (and
reflecting a state of the texts prior to our possible introduction of
errors) on the host ftp.bcc.ac.uk in the directory pub/users/ucgadkw/indology
The names have been changed to make things hopelessly confusing (but also
to permit keeping both versions in the same place at the same time).


May 15 1992: the file panini.zip has been added; panini has
             the file sutrapat.csx, with the asthadhyayi in
             the Classical Sanskrit extended character set.
             This is a modified form of the text as made available
             on the Indology listserver at liverpool.ac.uk

May 15 1992: for those with PCs, the files wnrir.ega, wnrir.vga,
             wnrirega.com, and wnrirvga.com may be of interest.
             [These must be transferred in binary mode].  The files
             wnrir.ega and wnrir.vga are screen fonts for EGA and VGA
             respectively (the VGA font is also the right size for a
             Hercules plus).  Those with screen font downloading
             utilities may use these fonts to view Sanskrit material
             encoded with CS/CSX encoding --such as sutrapat.csx above.

             The files wnrirega.com and wnrirvga.com are small program
             files which load the video controller with the screen fonts;
             these programs *do not* stay memory resident.  Anything
             which resets the video controller (e.g. the `mode' command,
             or most graphics programs) will evict the wnrir font.  Some
             cards have been marketed as having `VGA graphics' but do not
             support VGA fonts; if you have such a card you can likely use
             the wnrirega.com program.

              None of these are useful for plain Hercules or clone `mono-
              graphics' cards, or for CGA cards (or for that matter causing
              rain to fall or cooking the perfect ras malai).

15 May 1992:  the file bddhcrtm.zip has been added; this contains the TEI
              encoded text of the buddhacarita prepared by Peter Schreiner
              retranscribed in the CS/CSX encoding.


23 June, 1992: The file brhatsam.zip has been added; this contains the
               transcription of Varhahamira's Brhatsamhita made available
               by Michio Yano and Mizue Sugita (based on the A.V. Tripathi
               Sarasvati Bhavan Granthamala edition) converted to Classical
               Sanskrit Extended 8-bit encoding (CS/CSX).

19 August, 1992: The file saundary.zip has been added; this contains the
                Peter Schreiner transcription of Norman Brown's edition of
                Shankara's Saundarylahari [converted to CSX encoding].

30 March, 1993: The file rasratna.zip has been added.  The metafont-specific
                portions have been relocated into their own subdirectory
                'metafont'.  Concerning rasratna:
                     This is the IASS/CSX encoded version of:
                       The Rasaratnasamuccaya of Vagbhata: machine 
                       readable transcription, based on the Anandasrama 
                       Sanskrit Series edition, vol. 19, edited by 
                       Krishnaravasharman Vinayaka Bapata, Poona 1890.
                       Covers up to chapter 5, verse 23.
                       Transcription by Wieslaw Mical, Som Dev Vasudeva 
                       and Anne Glazier,  of SOAS, London.


In the directory metafont is a CSX version of Computer Modern.
This is a pre-release version of the Washington Romanized Indic
family of fonts, based on the proposed CS/CSX encoding of
transliterated Sanskrit (and other Indic languages).  The fonts
contain a copy of the standard CMR fonts in positions 0 to 127
and the CS/CSX characters in their locations in `upper ASCII'
according to the proposed standard.  The fonts also contain
other characters which are not recognized in the CS/CSX standard;
some of these are drawn from the IBM-PC character set, and some
are from other transliteration systems which may be convenient for
people dealing with India.  

Be advised that the font families are still under development and
changes, including changes in the arrangement of the HACC extension
characters may be made.  The CS/CSX characters do not at this
point have kerning values applied to them.  You won't be able to
do much with any of these unless you know how to run Metafont.
Don't ask me; look it up.  The CS/CSX characters, --by default--,
do not place the correct information in the tfm file about their
actual heights and depths; this is arguably the `correct' behavior
for characters which are `accented' (it is also arguably incorrect).
It will, however, prevent you from being able to apply TeX's own
accent operations to the characters in the CS/CSX set since TeX won't
know how tall they really are.  (The rationale for the untruth BTW is
to prevent awkward glops of whitespace intruding between lines when
an *occasional* very tall accented character shows up.)


June 18, 1993: the metafonts are updated and moved to a new
               directory.  Test versions of outline fonts are
               available in the outlines directory.  Outline fonts
               follow a slightly different coding scheme; examine
               them with whatever keymap/charmap utility you may have.
               Revise them with fontographer or fontmonger if you like.
